CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to NostrStack

Thank you for your interest in contributing to NostrStack! We welcome contributions from the community.

## Getting Started

1. **Fork the repository** on GitHub.
2. **Clone your fork** locally:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/nostrstack.git
   cd nostrstack
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**:

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

## Development Workflow

- **Start Dev Servers**:

  ```bash
  pnpm dev
  ```

  This starts both the API (`http://localhost:3001`) and the Gallery (`http://localhost:4173`).

- **Run Tests**:
  - Unit tests: `pnpm test`
  - End-to-End tests: `pnpm --filter gallery exec playwright test`

- **Linting & Formatting**:

  ```bash
  pnpm lint
  pnpm format
  ```

## Project Structure

- `apps/gallery`: The main social network frontend (React/Vite).
- `apps/api`: The backend API (Fastify/Node.js).
- `packages/blog-kit`: Reusable React components (`PostEditor`, `ZapButton`, `Auth`).
- `packages/embed`: Core embedding logic and non-React widgets.
- `packages/sdk`: The TypeScript SDK for interacting with the API.

## Submitting a Pull Request

1. Create a new branch for your feature or fix.
2. Make your changes and ensure tests pass.
3. Commit your changes with descriptive messages (we follow Conventional Commits).
4. Push your branch to your fork.
5. Open a Pull Request against the `main` branch of the original repository.

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

feat(storybook): Add Chromatic visual regression testing workflow
Set up automated visual regression testing with Chromatic:

- Created .github/workflows/chromatic.yml:
  * Triggers on push/PR to main when UI files change
  * Runs Storybook build in apps/gallery
  * Publishes to Chromatic for visual diff review
  * Auto-accepts changes on main branch
  * Only captures changed stories for efficiency

- Updated CONTRIBUTING.md:
  * Added Storybook development workflow section
  * Documented visual regression testing process
  * Added Chromatic review guidelines for PRs

- Created apps/gallery/.storybook/README.md:
  * Comprehensive Storybook documentation (70+ stories)
  * Writing stories guide with CSF 3.0 examples
  * Mock context provider patterns
  * Troubleshooting common issues
  * Addon configuration reference

Chromatic workflow requires CHROMATIC_PROJECT_TOKEN secret in GitHub
repository settings. Visual diffs will appear in PR checks.

Part of lightning-e40.5 (Chromatic visual regression testing).

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to NostrStack

Thank you for your interest in contributing to NostrStack! We welcome contributions from the community.

## Getting Started

1. **Fork the repository** on GitHub.
2. **Clone your fork** locally:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/nostrstack.git
   cd nostrstack
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**:

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

## Development Workflow

- **Start Dev Servers**:

  ```bash
  pnpm dev
  ```

  This starts both the API (`http://localhost:3001`) and the Gallery (`http://localhost:4173`).

- **Run Tests**:
  - Unit tests: `pnpm test`
  - End-to-End tests: `pnpm --filter gallery exec playwright test`

- **Linting & Formatting**:

  ```bash
  pnpm lint
  pnpm format
  ```

- **Storybook (Component Development)**:

  ```bash
  # Run Storybook dev server
  pnpm --filter gallery storybook
  
  # Build Storybook static site
  pnpm --filter gallery build-storybook
  ```

  Storybook provides an isolated environment for developing and testing UI components. We use it with Chromatic for visual regression testing.

## Project Structure

- `apps/gallery`: The main social network frontend (React/Vite).
- `apps/api`: The backend API (Fastify/Node.js).
- `packages/blog-kit`: Reusable React components (`PostEditor`, `ZapButton`, `Auth`).
- `packages/embed`: Core embedding logic and non-React widgets.
- `packages/sdk`: The TypeScript SDK for interacting with the API.

## Submitting a Pull Request

1. Create a new branch for your feature or fix.
2. Make your changes and ensure tests pass.
3. Commit your changes with descriptive messages (we follow Conventional Commits).
4. Push your branch to your fork.
5. Open a Pull Request against the `main` branch of the original repository.
6. **Visual Regression Testing**: If your PR modifies UI components or adds new stories, Chromatic will automatically run visual regression tests. Review any visual changes in the Chromatic UI linked in the PR checks.

## Visual Regression Testing with Chromatic

We use [Chromatic](https://www.chromatic.com/) to catch unintended visual changes in UI components. The workflow:

1. **Push changes**: When you push UI changes (`.tsx`, `.css`, or `.stories.tsx` files), the Chromatic GitHub Action automatically runs.
2. **Review diffs**: Chromatic captures screenshots of all stories and compares them to the baseline. Review any visual changes in the Chromatic UI.
3. **Accept or reject**: If the changes are intentional, accept them in Chromatic to update the baseline. Otherwise, fix the issue and push again.

Key configuration:
- Stories: `apps/gallery/src/**/*.stories.tsx` and `packages/blog-kit/src/*.stories.tsx`
- Workflow: `.github/workflows/chromatic.yml`
- Chromatic project: Set `CHROMATIC_PROJECT_TOKEN` in repository secrets

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the MIT License.
