DEPLOY.md, before:

# Deployment Guide

## Prerequisites
- Node.js 20+
- PNPM 9+
- A PostgreSQL database (optional, defaults to SQLite for dev/demo)
- An LNbits instance (for Lightning payments)

## Build
Run the build command from the root:
```bash
pnpm build
```

## Deploying the API (Backend)
The API is a Node.js application.
1.  Navigate to `apps/api`.
2.  Deploy the contents, ensuring `dist/server.js` is the entry point.
3.  Set environment variables:
    *   `DATABASE_URL`: Connection string to your Postgres DB (or file path for SQLite).
    *   `LN_BITS_URL`: URL to your LNbits instance.
    *   `LN_BITS_API_KEY`: Admin key for LNbits.
    *   `PUBLIC_ORIGIN`: The public URL of this API (e.g., `https://api.nostrstack.com`).
    *   `NOSTR_SECRET_KEY`: (Optional) nsec for the system bot.
    *   `PORT`: Port to listen on (default 3001).

## Deploying the Gallery (Frontend)
The Gallery is a static Single Page Application (SPA).
1.  Navigate to `apps/gallery/dist`.
2.  Deploy these static files to any static host (Cloudflare Pages, Vercel, Netlify, Nginx, etc.).
3.  **Configuration:** The frontend connects to the API. You must configure the build or the runtime environment (if using a specific server) to point to the API.
    *   The build embeds `VITE_API_BASE_URL` if set during build time.
    *   Otherwise, it defaults to `http://localhost:3001`.
    *   To customize for production, rebuild with:
        ```bash
        VITE_API_BASE_URL=https://api.nostrstack.com pnpm --filter gallery build
        ```

## Docker
You can also use the provided `Dockerfile` in `apps/api` for containerized deployment.

## Automated Deployment (CI/CD)
The repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow `.github/workflows/azure-deploy.yml` for deploying the API to Azure Container Apps.
For the frontend (Gallery), we recommend setting up a workflow with Cloudflare Pages or Vercel linked to the `apps/gallery` directory, with the build command `pnpm build`.

Commit message:

feat(deploy): Add Gallery Dockerfile and refactor blog-kit to use SDK

DEPLOY.md, after:

# Deployment Guide

## Prerequisites
- Node.js 20+
- PNPM 9+
- A PostgreSQL database (optional, defaults to SQLite for dev/demo)
- An LNbits instance (for Lightning payments)

## Build
Run the build command from the root:
```bash
pnpm build
```

## Deploying the API (Backend)
The API is a Node.js application.
1.  Navigate to `apps/api`.
2.  Deploy the contents, ensuring `dist/server.js` is the entry point.
3.  Set environment variables:
    *   `DATABASE_URL`: Connection string to your Postgres DB (or file path for SQLite).
    *   `LN_BITS_URL`: URL to your LNbits instance.
    *   `LN_BITS_API_KEY`: Admin key for LNbits.
    *   `PUBLIC_ORIGIN`: The public URL of this API (e.g., `https://api.nostrstack.com`).
    *   `NOSTR_SECRET_KEY`: (Optional) nsec for the system bot.
    *   `PORT`: Port to listen on (default 3001).

## Deploying the Gallery (Frontend)
The Gallery is a static Single Page Application (SPA).
1.  Navigate to `apps/gallery/dist`.
2.  Deploy these static files to any static host (Cloudflare Pages, Vercel, Netlify, Nginx, etc.).
3.  **Configuration:** The frontend connects to the API. You must configure the build or the runtime environment (if using a specific server) to point to the API.
    *   The build embeds `VITE_API_BASE_URL` if set during build time.
    *   Otherwise, it defaults to `http://localhost:3001`.
    *   To customize for production, rebuild with:
        ```bash
        VITE_API_BASE_URL=https://api.nostrstack.com pnpm --filter gallery build
        ```

## Docker
You can also use the provided `Dockerfile` in `apps/api` for containerized deployment.

For the Gallery (frontend), a `Dockerfile` is provided in `apps/gallery` which builds the static site and serves it via Nginx.
```bash
docker build -f apps/gallery/Dockerfile -t nostrstack-gallery .
docker run -p 8080:80 nostrstack-gallery
```

## Automated Deployment (CI/CD)
The repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow `.github/workflows/azure-deploy.yml` for deploying the API to Azure Container Apps.
For the frontend (Gallery), we recommend setting up a workflow with Cloudflare Pages or Vercel linked to the `apps/gallery` directory, with the build command `pnpm build`.
